---
layout: default
title: AED Public Use License
---

AED Public Use License Agreement, Version 1.0 
---------------------------------------------

This  source-available, public use license (the "License") applies to any original work of authorship (the "Original Work") whose owner, the Academy for Educational Development ("AED"), hereinafter identified as  the "Licensor", has placed the following licensing notice adjacent to the copyright notice for the Original Work:

	The contents of this file are subject to the AED Public Use License Agreement, Version 1.0 (the "License"); 
	use in any manner is strictly prohibited except in compliance with the terms of the License.  The License is 
	available at http://gatherdata.org/license.
	Copyright (c) AED.  All Rights Reserved 

1. Grant of Copyright License. Licensor grants Collaborator  a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive, sublicensable license, for the duration of the copyright, to do the following:

	a. to reproduce the Original Work in copies, either alone or as part of a collective work;
	
	b. to translate, adapt, alter, transform, modify, or arrange the Original Work, thereby creating derivative works ("Derivative Works") based upon the Original Work;
	
	c. to distribute or communicate copies of the Original Work and Derivative Works to the public, with the proviso that copies of Original Work or Derivative Works that Collaborator distributes or communicates shall be licensed under this  License;
	
	d. to perform the Original Work publicly; and
	
	e. to display the Original Work publicly.

2. Grant of Patent License. Licensor grants Collaborator a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive, sublicensable license, under patent claims owned or controlled by the Licensor that are embodied in the Original Work as furnished by the Licensor, for the duration of the patents, to make, use, sell, offer for sale, have made, and import the Original Work and Derivative Works. 

3. Grant of Source Code License. The term "Source Code" means the preferred form of the Original Work for making modifications to it and all available documentation describing how to modify the Original Work. Licensor agrees to provide a machine-readable copy of the Source Code of the Original Work along with each copy of the Original Work that Licensor distributes. Licensor reserves the right to satisfy this obligation by placing a machine-readable copy of the Source Code in an information repository reasonably calculated to permit inexpensive and convenient access by Collaborator for as long as Licensor continues to distribute the Original Work.

4. Exclusions From License Grant. Neither the names of Licensor, nor the names of any contributors to the Original Work, nor any of their trademarks or service marks, may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this Original Work without express prior permission of the Licensor. Except as expressly stated herein, nothing in this License grants any license to Licensor's trademarks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets or any other intellectual property. No patent license is granted to make, use, sell, offer for sale, have made, or import embodiments of any patent claims other than the licensed claims defined in Section 2. No license is granted to the trademarks of Licensor even if such marks are included in the Original Work. Nothing in this License shall be interpreted to prohibit Licensor from licensing under terms different from this License any Original Work that Licensor otherwise would have a right to license.

5. External Deployment. The term "External Deployment" means the use, distribution, or communication of the Original Work or Derivative Works in any way such that the Original Work or Derivative Works may be used by anyone other than Collaborator, whether those works are distributed or communicated to those persons or made available as an application intended for use over a network. As an express condition for the grants of license hereunder, Collaborator must treat any External Deployment by Collaborator of the Original Work or a Derivative Work as a distribution under section 1(c).

6. Attribution Rights. Collaborator must retain, in the Source Code of any Derivative Works that Collaborator creates, all copyright, patent, or trademark notices from the Source Code of the Original Work, as well as any notices of licensing and any descriptive text identified therein as an "Attribution Notice." Collaborator must cause the Source Code for any Derivative Works that Collaborator creates to carry a prominent Attribution Notice reasonably calculated to inform recipients that Collaborator has modified the Original Work.

7. Warranty of Provenance and Disclaimer of Warranty. Licensor warrants that the copyright in and to the Original Work and the patent rights granted herein by Licensor are owned by the Licensor or are sublicensed to Collaborator under the terms of this License with the permission of the contributor(s) of those copyrights and patent rights. Except as expressly stated in the immediately preceding sentence, the Original Work is provided under this License on an "AS IS" BASIS and WITHOUT WARRANTY, either express or implied, including, without limitation, the warranties of non-infringement, merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY OF THE ORIGINAL WORK IS WITH COLLABORATOR. This DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY constitutes an essential part of this License. No license to the Original Work is granted by this License except under this disclaimer.

8. Limitation of Liability. Under no circumstances and under no legal theory, whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, shall the Licensor be liable to anyone for any indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a result of this License or the use of the Original Work including, without limitation, damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or losses. This limitation of liability shall not apply to the extent applicable law prohibits such limitation.

9. Acceptance and Termination. If, at any time, Collaborator expressly assented to this License, that assent indicates Collaborator's clear and irrevocable acceptance of this License and all of its terms and conditions. If Collaborator distributes or communicates copies of the Original Work or a Derivative Work, Collaborator must make a reasonable effort under the circumstances to obtain the express assent of recipients to the terms of this License. This License conditions Collaborator's rights to undertake the activities listed in Section 1, including Collaborator's right to create Derivative Works based upon the Original Work, and doing so without honoring these terms and conditions is prohibited by copyright law and international treaty. Nothing in this License is intended to affect copyright exceptions and limitations (including 'fair use' or 'fair dealing'). This License shall terminate immediately and Collaborator may no longer exercise any of the rights granted to Collaborator by this License upon Collaborator's failure to honor the conditions in Section 1(c).

10. Termination for Patent Action. This License shall terminate automatically and Collaborator may no longer exercise any of the rights granted to Collaborator by this License as of the date Collaborator commences an action, including a cross-claim or counterclaim, against Licensor or any licensee alleging that the Original Work infringes a patent. This termination provision shall not apply for an action alleging patent infringement by combinations of the Original Work with other software or hardware.

11. Jurisdiction, Venue and Governing Law. Any action or suit relating to this License may be brought only in the courts of a jurisdiction wherein the Licensor resides or in which Licensor conducts its primary business, and under the laws of that jurisdiction excluding its conflict-of-law provisions. The application of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded. Any use of the Original Work outside the scope of this License or after its termination shall be subject to the requirements and penalties of copyright or patent law in the appropriate jurisdiction. This section shall survive the termination of this License.

12. Attorneys' Fees. In any action to enforce the terms of this License or seeking damages relating thereto, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover its costs and expenses, including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and costs incurred in connection with such action, including any appeal of such action. This section shall survive the termination of this License.

13. Miscellaneous. If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable.

14. Definition of "Collaborator" in This License. "Collaborator" throughout this License, whether in upper or lower case, means an individual or a legal entity exercising rights under, and complying with all of the terms of, this License. For legal entities, "Collaborator" includes any entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with Collaborator. For purposes of this definition, "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity. The use of the term "Collaborator" is intended to convey a collaborative relationship between all parties, Licensor, Collaborator and other third party collaborators.

15. Right to Use. Collaborator may use the Original Work in all ways not otherwise restricted or conditioned by this License or by law, and Licensor promises not to interfere with or be responsible for such uses by Collaborator.

16. Intention of Reciprocity.  It is the intention of Licensor that use of the Original Work will encourage reciprocal public use release of any Modifications, Derivative Works, or Required Components (collectively Extensions) that Collaborator creates.  Licensor has established a site for reciprocal Extensions at http://gatherdata.org/derivatives (the "Site").  By placing Extensions at the site, Collaborator hereby grants to Licensor and all third parties a world-wide, non-exclusive, royalty-free license under those intellectual property rights Collaborator owns or controls to use, reproduce, display, perform, modify, create derivatives, sublicense, and distribute Licensed Software, in any form. Any Extensions Collaborator makes and deploys must have a distinct title so as to readily tell any subsequent user or collaborator that the Extensions are by Collaborator. Collaborator must include a copy of this License or directions on how to obtain a copy with every copy of the Extensions Collaborator distribute. Collaborator agrees not to offer or impose any terms on any Source Code or executable version of the Original Work or its Extensions that alter or restrict the applicable version of this License or the recipients' rights hereunder.  Additionally:

	a. Collaborator will make available, the source code of any Extensions that Collaborator contributes to the Site, via an Electronic Distribution Mechanism. Collaborator is responsible for ensuring that the source code to each version Collaborator contributes remains available even if the Electronic Distribution Mechanism is maintained by a third party. Collaborator will not charge a fee for any copy of the source code distributed under this Section in excess of Collaborator's actual cost of duplication and distribution of said copy as contributions to the Site are not intended as for commercial leveraging.
	
	b. Collaborator must cause any Extensions that Collaborator creates or which Collaborator contributes to be documented in the Source Code, clearly describing the additions, changes or deletions Collaborator made. Collaborator must include a prominent statement that the Extensions are derived, directly or indirectly, from the Original Work and include the names of the Licensor and any contributors to the Original Work in (i) the Source Code and (ii) in any notice displayed by the Original Work Collaborator distributes or in related documentation in which Collaborator describes the origin or ownership of the Original Work. Collaborator may not modify or delete any pre-existing copyright notices, change notices or License text in the Original Work without written permission of the respective Licensor.
	
	c.  If Collaborator has knowledge that a license to a third party's intellectual property right is required to exercise the rights in an Extension contributed to the Site, Collaborator must include a human-readable file with Collaborator's contribution that describes the claim and the party making the claim in sufficient detail that a recipient will know whom to contact.

	d. If Collaborator's Extension includes an application programming interface ("API") and Collaborator have knowledge of patent licenses that are reasonably necessary to implement that API, Collaborator must also include this information in a human-readable file supplied with Collaborator's contribution. 

	e. Collaborator represent that, except as disclosed pursuant to (c) above, Collaborator believes that any Extensions Collaborator contributes to the Site are Collaborator's original creations and that Collaborator has sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by this License. 

	f. Collaborator must duplicate this License or instructions on how to acquire a copy in any documentation Collaborator provides along with the Source Code of any Extensions Collaborator which Collaborator contributes to the Site.
	
	g. Where any portion of Collaborator's Extensions, by virtue of being derivative works of another product or similar circumstance, fall under the terms of another license, the terms of that license should be honored however Collaborator must also make Collaborator's Extensions available under this License. If the terms of this License continue to conflict with the terms of the other license Collaborator may write the Licensor for permission to resolve the conflict in a fashion that remains consistent with the intent of this License. Such permission will be granted at the sole discretion of the Licensor. 

	h. Collaborator expressly acknowledges and agrees that although Licensor and each Collaborator that contributes to the Site grants the licenses to their respective contributions, no assurances are provided by Licensor that the Extensions do not infringe the patent or other intellectual property rights of any other entity. Licensor disclaims any liability to Collaborator for claims brought by any other entity based on infringement of intellectual property rights or otherwise. As a condition to exercising the rights and licenses granted hereunder, Collaborator hereby assumes sole responsibility to secure any other intellectual property rights needed, if any. For example, if a third party patent license is required to allow Collaborator to distribute an Extension, it is Collaborator's responsibility to acquire that license before distributing the Extension. 


